We thank the referee for the second report. Below, the referee's comments are preceded be ">>>" and our responses follow. We have addressed some of the referee's comments, however, most of their objections pertain to the new statistical method used in this work to infer the cluster parameters, and we find their suggestions to use "more conventional solutions" questionable. If the referee is still unsatisfied with the statistical method used here, we strongly suggest that the editor and referee consult with a statistical editor or referee.


>>> I agree with most of the answers of the authors.
>>> The issue of the photometry has been correctly addressed by the authors and now the discussion on the data, and the data processing, is fixed.
>>> However the automatic fitting procedure, starting from a wide input, with several free parameters, does not guarantee the reliability of the results, and the authors do not present a solid evidence excluding alternative, more "conventional" solutions.

We are well aware of conventional isochrone fitting and many authors on this article have used the technique in previous work. However, here we present what we believe is a new and improved methodology (based on a standard implementation of Bayesian hierarchical inference) for deriving stellar properties of a cluster (or a single stellar population). Bayesian data analysis and statistical inference is now part of a standard toolkit of data analysis techniques across astronomy, in large because of the robustness of the methods and uncertainty estimates these methods provide. In describing the methodology, we have stated our model assumptions, and assessed the convergence of the (Markov Chain Monte Carlo) method used to sample from the model. It is true that our results are conditional on (a) the photometric uncertainties (i.e., the error model), (b) the correctness of the isochrone models, and (c) the assumptions of the statistical model (i.e., the priors), but this is generic for any scientific data analysis. The "wide input" (large priors) or the fact that the model has "several free parameters" is irrelevant here: We generate posterior samplings over all of our parameters using a standard statistical procedure (Markov Chain Monte Carlo, MCMC), and assess the convergence of these samplings using the widely-used Gelman-Rubin convergence diagnostic (Gelman & Rubin 1992) and find that our results are robust (we have added a sentence to each section that references MCMC to indicate this). Our posterior probability distribution, for the hierarchical model specified, is not strongly multi-modal, so the wideness of the priors does not impact the final samplings. We do not see any strong scientific reasons to stick to the conventional fitting method, especially given the fact that our results and the referee's test (using the "conventional" method) seem to agree.

If the reliability of the results are still in question, we recommend that the referee consults with a statistical editor or referee from the AAS journals.


>>> I had to carry out by myself a number of fitting tests deriving the photometry from Fig. 6 (a table with the "selected" photometry, given the limited number of cluster candidates, is strongly recommended) in order to understand the correctness of the results. I forced shorter distances in one set of tests, using PARSEC isochrones, which includes reddening/temperature corrections, and others, fixing, instead, higher metallicity or much older/younger ages. The summary of the results is that there is no combination of age, metallicity and reddening compatible with a distance much shorter than 26-28 Kpcs. The key point is the tilting of the MS: a short distance implies a faint and old MS, but this is more tilted than the present data and the reddening/temperature corrections are not enough to compensate the tilting difference with Av=0.2. A higher reddening, with a younger age, and a short distance, is incompatible as well because the color of the upper MS is too blue, even significantly decreasing the metallicity. In conclusion my tests converge to about 27-31 kpc. This is in a good agreement with the results of the paper, but I think that the claimed accuracy of +/-0.5 Kpc is just a formal result, not realistic (please note that the cluster has a claimed diameter of 700-800 pc). My best age is in the range 100 to 200 Myr, again in agreement with the 120 Myr of the paper. However the blind use of automatic procedures may hide a more complex scenario: I could not get a perfect fit with a single isochrone fitting the lower envelope photometry from g=21 to g=16. A better agreement could be obtained with an older isochrone up to g=17.7 and another, slightly younger (100 MYr ?) from g=17.7 up to g=16. A refinement may include a slightly longer distance and a higher metallicity. Only a detailed analysis from the original photometric data can give a more accurate and reliable answer.

We appreciate the referee's time and effort for cross-checking our results.

First, we do plan to include the photometry for this region, and would be happy to add a way to select out the cluster candidate members from the catalog. We have added the DECam photometry for the members to the response as "decam_members.fits"

Second, unfortunately it is difficult to compare our results to those quoted above because the referee does not explain the fitting tests performed in a way we can reproduce. It sounds like isochrones are over-laid by eye on the photometry, which is not a robust or justified (in a statistical sense) method for doing model fitting or error analysis: drawing isochrones over photometric data and picking out "good fits" is not a robust fitting test. These are the main reasons we chose to develop the statistical methodology presented in this work: This procedure instead naturally adapts the parameters to account for the shape of the main sequence through specification of a likelihood function and statistical model. Despite these differences, it sounds like the referee generally agrees with our conclusions, albeit with slightly larger estimated error bars on the distance and age. However, this discrepancy in error bars, again, seems to be estimated by eye and thus we are not convinced that this is a robust methodology to compare to.


>>> In conclusion, given the peculiarity of this objects, I recommend the authors to carry out a couple of the described tests and provide the reader with some solid arguments against alternative solutions of distances/ages. A short discussion including, or excluding, a more complex formation history should be also added. They can be described in a short subsection.

We have added a new subsection ("Other possible formation scenarios") in the discussion to discuss other possible formation scenarios.


>>> Further points:
>>> -could the authors show to me the plot with the DECam photometry vs. PS1 ? I do not understand the RMS of the g, i and of the u bands (Sec. 2.2), and Table 1 uncertainty on the zero points. Obviously the zero point error could be lower, but here we have one order of magnitude difference. Is it correct ?

We have included these plots in the response "lafcluster_calib.pdf".


>>> -It is not completely clear to me how the authors used the u-band data. I see only a very short comment in Sec. 3.2, but I do not understand its contribution. Is it significant ? Is it in agreement with g and i analysis ? It would be interesting to see a plot including the u.

The u-band data are used just like the g- and i- band to do the individual source samplings over stellar parameters. But, as stated, only the brightest ~15 stars in the cluster field are robustly detected. For those sources, the u-band data helps to constrain the extinction, which in turn helps to constrain the extinction inferred for the whole cluster in the hierarchical model. We have added a sentence to describe this in the text. We have decided not to include a plot with the u-band because only the brightest few stars have robust measurements.
